you're watching the context it's time
for our weekly segment AI
[Music]
decoded welcome to Aid decoded that time
of the week when we look in depth at
some of the more eye-catching stories in
the world of artificial intelligence so
we're going to start with futurism which
reports that uh the humans behind the
accounts of virtual influences or AI
generated characters that masquerade is
the real thing on social media media are
now pasting fake faces onto the bodies
of Real Models meanwhile Business
Insider asks whether AI will put an end
to gen Z's obsession with becoming an
influencer after Major Brands begin to
show interest in using AI models instead
of humans Mashable says a misc captioned
video falsely claiming to be an Iranian
missile strike on Tel Aviv was promoted
as legitimate by social media platform X
fake headline quote Iran strikes Tel
Aviv with heavy missiles was apparently
generated by X's own official AI
chatbot The Verge looks at Ai and
copyright in the US a new bill could
force uh tech companies to disclose any
copyrighted materials they use to train
their AI models the bill from
representative uh Adam shift would
require anyone making a training data
set for AI to to submit reports on its
contents to the copyrights
register there's been a pet hate of
teachers everywhere but not in Texas
where they plan to replace thousands of
human exam markers with artificial
intelligence it's believed the AI graded
tests could save $20 million a year
that's from Tech
spot and finally popular science uh
future AI developer Google deepmind who
are now able to train tiny off-the-shelf
robots to play soccer uh we'll show you
a bit of that
later with me is priia Lani who's CEO of
century Tech and artificial intelligence
education technology company that
develops AI powered learning tools
thanks very much for coming on the
program good to see you great to see you
okay we're going to start now with this
AI influences so artificial influence we
we can take a look at um a little bit of
what we are talking about so those AI
influen
are deep faking fake faces onto real
women's bodies without permission and
the the subheading there is it's a real
problem is that is that how you see it
yeah absolutely so the first story is
about these people that are taking the
real bodies of women mostly and then
they're putting on a deep fake face
right and then they're posting that and
earning money actually from it most of
the time on competitive of only fans
which is a platform where essentially
creators can put on their own content
now in the context of only fans um more
creators on only fans are women rather
than men um 85% of the top 10% of
earners are women and an average Creator
Le just to give you a bit of context
right earns about $180 a month so this
is a business for some of these creators
where they're you know using their own
images their own bodies and creating
that content and so essentially their
content and their videos are being
ripped off right because then you
superimpose an AI face and post it
elsewhere and you make money off that
content so firstly you're violating
personal rights yes but the second thing
you're doing is obviously infringing on
the the woman the creators intellectual
property um and 300 people I think 300
odd odd creators have surpassed a
million dollars annually earning money
from from doing this so they have a very
good right to be very very upset about
this so it is a real problem and just
just so you you get it personally this
took me six 60 seconds to do actually if
we can put it up on on the screen so I
created one of you but
actually so because there are so many
tools that allow us to do this so This
literally took me less than a minute
actually I've done the reverse here I've
got your face but I've actually changed
your body yeah right you look great
casual
Lewis but but and so that's a bit of
fern but can we have a look at it in
this context so I just created this
before I got here so I didn't have time
to send it to the producers but if you
look at my iPad leis so I took a video
of you okay on BC just
lift Okay so we've got you on the BBC
presenting okay um a story about Tik Tok
so hopefully the viewers can see that I
apologize this is really last minute
yeah and then uh through magic hour AI
I've mashed your face with Christians
Christian phrases oh my that is a
terrifying thought in every way
right but you see how this is you in
your day job right so I've got your body
I've got your I've got the BBC
thankfully it stopped it stopped right
so you and Christian together that's
what you guys would look like um but
what's interesting about that I think
your your floor manager is laughing no
one can hear that right now um the
reason that's really important to show
is that that is you in your day job and
so creators are obviously creating this
content you know which we we've shown um
viewers and they're earning money from
it so not only is it a personal affront
but it's also a professional affront
well and how do you you just knock
knocked that up pretty quickly and
pretty disturbing that's in the cab on
the way here and and so how do you how
do you begin to try and stop that how if
it's so easy how do you how can you try
and stop well and I think some of the
some of the stories that we're going to
come on to will help with this but
obviously the input here is a an
infringement right it's an infringement
of Ip rights so there are laws um to
protect uh copyright and we're going to
talk about that in a minute in a future
story but what's really important is
when we're talking about this sort of
generative AI okay separate it into two
areas separate it into the input this is
really important for the rest of how
regulation and law develops in this area
separate AI into the training data what
was the input what data was used to
train the artificial intelligence models
yes and then the output what came out of
the other side right now actually in the
cases in the story The reason why it's
just so blatant is because the output is
also substantially similar right to the
input okay so how do you do that well
there are laws to protect in these areas
is but what I find and find really
really difficult is the fact that law is
sometimes so expensive and difficult to
access for some people so it's not
actually as as Fair as saying well you
know you've got recourse okay let's look
at this is very very linked as you were
talking Business Insider Jen's fading
dream human influences are being
replaced by artificial intelligence and
maybe that's a good thing yeah well so
so apparently a lot of gen Zed and I got
anywhere from half of genz to a quarter
of gened that's a lot of gen Zed want to
be influencers that's the future career
aspiration of of of these young people
about 25% of marketers work with
influencers and and again it's a job for
them right so when it comes to
influencers they earn a lot of money um
they they create content they partner
with brands for example and Brands find
this really great because the return on
investment from an influencer promoting
your content is higher on average than
if you just advertise your content so a
brand would earn an average of about
just over $5 in Media value for every $1
spent on an influencer so it's a huge
Market but the reason why this article
is basically saying your hopes and
dreams no longer going to be alive right
genz said is because people are using AI
influencers these are completely
fictitious which is what we're seeing
right now so this woman here is not a
real woman that's AI on top no that's AI
absolutely that's yeah exactly so
they're using AI to actually you know
and and why right because it's cheaper
right so if I can do that in a few
minutes right if you're doing it where
you're not substantially copying this is
a different story right this is not
about copying on on real pp's bodies but
if you can create truly original con
original output content I should say
otherwise every Tech is going to have a
goat me saying hang on what was the
input okay but you can do that cheaper
Brands can do that cheaper you don't
have to pay people money you could run
many characters on platforms yourself
you don't have to deal with any egos
that would be pretty cool right the
video to me the presenter ego absolutely
talking and and and so therefore this is
a potential solution to that issue but I
tell you what could happen right which
is really interesting if you end up with
AIS right out there influencing and
partnering with Brands right the the
most the area that most uses influences
is lifestyle and second is beauty right
the point is is that you trust
influencers that's why they work are you
going to trust an AI putting cream on
their face saying my visible in my 40s
lines have disappeared so actually that
authenticity of the human I think will
become even more valuable in the future
so therefore therefore still Del a
potential career path right we're going
to move on to Mashable we're going to
whip through a couple of these stories
now Elon musk's X pushed a fake headline
about Iran attacking
Israel uh talk us through this because
this is potential real world warning
signal yeah and this is what actually
people have been talking about for so
long so the fact that we're just seeing
it play out is actually really really
sad um for for the people that have been
in this space for years talking about
this so essentially all that happened
was that um there was content onx right
that was fake news right the fact that
it stated that Iran was responsible for
these strikes actually that's the
footage was from Ukraine I think uh
launching strikes against Russians in
Crimea um but anyway it was it was fake
news and then grock which is uh Elon
musk's big investment in generative AI
um that operates on the X platform took
essentially this content saw it as a
trending topic made up this is an AI
right made up its own headline made up
its own contextualized story all fake
news and then actually posted that to X
users and and the problem with this
obviously is it's dangerous and it
reminds you of that 1938 a and Wells
story where War of the Worlds right
where he was on the radio and he was
actually talking about martians and
Aliens descending on Earth people tuned
in a bit late and there was mass
hysteria apparently people left their
homes so how you can have an influence
by posting fake news is real this is
really dangerous and disinformation in
fake news has to be tackled and we need
to hurry up right in terms of Regulation
and I mean you know ex ex is already in
trouble with the EU at the moment and I
think it's only a matter of time really
you know for for other states to take
action as well okay we're going to have
a look at legislation attempts anyway
The Verge a new Bill wants to reveal
what's really inside AI training data so
what's the attempt here yeah okay so
this is very much linked to all of this
right so the input data so what's
happened here is Adam Schiff who is um I
believe a you're going to correct me a
Democrat sen Senator have I got that
right but he's proposed a bill to the
House of Representatives where
essentially any generative AI platforms
would have to list if the bill was
passed so post Bill not not the current
platforms with their current training
data just to be clear um any copyright
sources copyrighted sources that they've
used to train their data models which
actually gives you that transparency of
what's been used right the EU already
have this
um in their in their drafts uh for the
EU um AI act so so essentially it would
it would it would put you on this Level
Playing Field with the EU and the UK is
saying that people in the UK saying we
should hurry up as well and so it gives
you that transparency of what has been
the input content so when there are
cases there are plenty of lawsuits at
the moment for example John Grisham and
a bunch of authors the New York Times
has taken open AI to court it would give
content creators and copyright holders
the ability to to essentially check if
their content has been used and if
copyright has been infringed I see but
it's not law yet so we keep an eye on it
see how it see how it develops it's
moving quickly okay uh we're going to
stay in the US Texas is replacing
thousands of human exam scorers with AI
this is from Tech spot uh how is this
going to work this is really interesting
right so it does cost millions and
millions of pounds in the UK dollars in
the US all over the world to Mark exam
scripts so they've changed the exam in
Texas so that it has more long form
answers so less multiple choice exact
short answer and they're going to be
using trained AI models to Mark students
answers now before you look really
skeptical okay what I would say is if
you look at gcses in the UK in England
for example if you look at the GCSE
papers and long form answers for example
in a history essay right actually it's
pretty proven that marking can be a bit
skew whiffing cases because you have the
human marking and it can be sometimes
quite subjective even if you have a
rubric and a mark scheme and we've
actually developed this sort of
Technology at Cent as well when it comes
to literacy what you do is you train
your own proprietary models you don't
just plug it into a GPT why because when
a third party upgrades its own models
actually you don't know what changes
have been made and then you can see a
prompt that you enter today could
actually give you a completely different
answer next time and then you use the
exam scripts you look at the you
essentially constantly have this human
evaluation which is what Texas will do
they've trained it on 3,000 transcripts
they'll mark Mark and save lots of money
and apparently need to use 2,000 people
rather than 6,000 people this year but
it actually is an ongoing investment
because every time an exam takes place
you take lots of scripts you look at the
scripts where there was a low
probability of those scripts being
marked properly you retrain your models
and it's an ongoing process very quickly
that seems to make sense and I can't
imagine marking script after script if
you're a human teacher or exam is the
most fun so that's po I bet some of them
find it really fun
actually I'm Jud
it's an we have 30 seconds left do you
want to watch some cute little robots
playing football of course you do let's
take a look at
that right just in 20 seconds priia
what's going on so essentially Deep Mind
have built these mini robots playing
football they use what's called Deep
reinforcements learning it's a really
really powerful technique in artificial
intelligence where you look at all the
permutations of how a football uh play
might take place you reward the system
or you punish it if it doesn't for
example score a goal and then they're
basically through Brute Force training
it with tons and tons of data using deep
learning as well so the technique is
super interesting and here you go will
will one of those be lifesized and play
for Man United and help my team I don't
know hopefully oh he's falling over
again it is adorable when they fall over
right priia amazing thank you so much
we're are out of time thank you thanks
Lou